I'm Jeremy from fh steinbart company and
today we'll be doing a beer brewing
tutorial on behalf of expert village now
that we're through using grains for this
beer it's time to add some malt extract
to it what we can do here is go ahead
and shut off our heat this is very
important the last thing you want to do
is scorch this malt extract to the
bottom of your pan go ahead and open the
bag pour it on in there just like so for
this beer will be using about 7 pounds
look while extract for lighter lower
alcohol beers you use less malt extract
for heavier more flavorful beers you use
more for this step we're a bit on the
high side but that's okay because we
want a nice heavy flavorful style and
that's what all this malt extract is
going to get us we've got one more bag
to add in here we'll go ahead and
thoroughly stir our malt extract in this
is dry malt extract you'll also see
another form of malt extract called
liquid malt extract there's not a lot of
difference between the two dry malt
extract has a tendency to float on the
top a little bit more so when we add our
dry malt extract we just have to stir it
on down in there real thoroughly until
all the chunks break up traditionally
any brewer would have to take the sugars
that are in our malt extract and extract
them from malted barley through a
complicated process called mashing malt
extract is made for home brewers in
small commercial breweries in you the
use of malt extract allows them to forgo
the mashing process just add it and
you're done makes things a lot easier
now that we have our
tracked all in the pot in thoroughly
mixed in it's time to turn back on the
heat pour yourself a beer and wait for
this to boil here usually it'll take
about 20 or 30 minutes depending on how
hot your stove is but you really want to
watch this guy it's a good idea to come
back and check on it every few minutes
and once your thermometer reads about
two hundred and five degrees or so you
don't want to leave that pot you really
want to watch this guy and make sure it
doesn't boil over it makes a big mess
that nobody wants to have to deal with